Requirements

Selection - UNDO after empty click
By Students
Add the possibility to output the Query command as General text formating

RENDERING
https://vtk.org/pipermail/vtkusers/2016-November/097309.html


By Jakub
31. 8. 2021
1) kinematic/distributed coupling constraints
2) symetry boundary conditions

25. 5. 2021
1) frequency step - specify a range of frequencies
2) a replace step feature: Buckling for Static

21. 5. 2021
1) possibility to edit existing keywords in the keywords editor
2) possibility to define local mesh refinements based on the number of elements, not just their size; biased distribution
3) user-defined field output based on the available variables - equations
4) hyperelastic materials

30. 8. 2021
1) displaying shell thickness in 3D
2) hiding of single elements while postprocessing
3) enabling continuous result colors



By Naldo
17. 5. 2021
1) To zoom in - mouse right button: click, hold and drag top left to bottom right; to zoom out - mouse right button: click,
   hold and drag bottom righ to top left
2) model orientation - click on any of the triad axes to change the view to that orientation; create a isometric 'ball' on the
   triad to click on for the Isometric view
3) connectivity - show free edges and connected edges in different colours - in geometry and mesh
4) result plots - have an option to show the midsurfaces result plots too (i.e. withoutt the shell thickness)
5) option to plot underformed body as a wire plot
6) option to show reference points and rigid body elements in the results plots


By Silvio
15. 12. 2020
add support for automatic mesh convergance on a single face, edga or vertex

By Massimiliano
10. 9. 2020
1) add support for cylindrical coordinate system for modeling
2) add support for cylindrical coordinate system for ploting of the results
3) change the legend limits on the 3D view
5) remote load moment using nodal forces
6) add support for spring elements
7) add support for the restart of the analysis 


By Devis
1.5.2020
Dynamic analysis (Harmonic response, Random vibration, Response spectrum, Time history)
Fatigue analysis
Plastic (copy / paste) parameters from data/file
Export in VTK (Paraview)
Personalising spectrum colours (post-Processing)
Personalising description format (post-Processing)
Iso line (post-Processing)
Logo (Right-Top)


By others:
Josh W: 
Support for viewing and editing materila data in material library


By Martin:
22.1.2020
2) let the eye icon in the model tree (or the place where it would be) toggle hide/show state (activated/deactivated)


By Martin:
7. 7. 2019
3) support for smart naming - ANSYS "rename based on definition".
5) support for moment loads on surfaces
6) support for hydrostatic load
7) support for de-featuring based on mesh???
10) FORUM!
11) highlight the parts for which the meshing parameters are changed while Regenerate for remeshing
16) step manager is missing (move up and down, duplicate ...)
17) shape optimization, adaptive mesh refinement
19) support for oppening older file versions
22) add support for changing the active step while the animation is on


By Vittorio:
20. 6. 2019
1) load symbols scaled according their magnitude • I am more inclind to the possibility to display the magnitudes like in a postprocessor using colors and a scale/legend.
2) vector plots of displacements • This could be a nice feature. I will add it to the list.
3) the capability of doing linear combinations of the results obtained in load steps (this is a must for civil engineers) •	This could be done like an equation combining different field values from different fields. At the moment this could be done using simple math operations: +,-,*,/,sin, cos, abs.
Another very useful capability could be the export of results in vtk format • This feature is also requested by other users.


By Emanuele:
5. 11. 2018
- add support for a bearing load - load distributed inside a hole


By Ihor:
25. 5. 2021
1) user defind tooltips as for Min and Max values
2) add the possibility for command line parameters to use PPM as .step viewer

10.5.2021
1) feature to export nodal results together with their nodal coordinates

30.5.2019
1) export for VTK

Old
- add support for importing inp files


By Sergio:
20. 4. 2020
- add support for printing material datasheet option
- add support to export material to .csv
- add engineering constants as yield, ultimate stress and strain, fatigue limit and then scale the resuls using them
- add support for amplitudes


8. 6. 2020
- can be added an option to sort alphabetically the material library
- can be added more buttons to the main toolbar for the queries (node, element, measure...)
- on posprocessing, a new option to select a node and plot the displayed result along the time for no lineal cases
- for displacement history output, the label of the column and plot, should be Ux Node XXXX and not only the node number


24.8.2018
- tabular amplitude definitions
- 2D plot utility 

30.7.2018
- sorting of part names, set names :- this is not possible using current user keywords positioning system with indices
- analysis should be run in a separate folder with the analysis name; 

24.6.2018
- renaming of parts on the treeview with the F2 shortcut
19.2.2018
- show material and other properties in results view
- user defined result fields using equations, so the user could add a new field and its equation
- opening multiple results files
- create .pmx file with each analysis run
12.5.2020
- main window size
- Add advanced materials (hyperelastic and hyperfoam at least)?
- Show bc widgets in results?  
- Move the Open Recent items directly to the main menu branch as usual Windows programs
- Operations on orhpan meshes??? (move, scale, rotate, simmetry, extrude, revolute...)?
- In the CalculiX cards editor, move the Add Keyword to the vertical toolbar.
- Add Activate/Deactivate to user keyword cards?
- For preload, add the option to use a user selected reference point. By the moment the reference point is created in the center
  of the faces, but if the bolt is in a simmetry plane then this is not correct.
- In the Create Step window, with a Direct nlgeom step: Initial increment = Time period/Max increments!
- X/Y plot utility for results?
22.5.2020
- add an option in the job creation window to automatically load the results in the model file and save the model file
- an option to export the results in Paraview compatible format
- a warning before launching the solver when plastic materias were defined, but PEEQ  was not present in the element result request
- the same for contacts maybe


By Martin:

17.1.2018
- distributed loads, in particular, hydrostatic ones. It is a shame that calculix doesn't offer these by default.
- Get Prepomax running under Linux (with mono framework).
- support of more analysis types, handling of selected data output (dat)
- path plots based on geometric objects or sets of nodes
- correction of overclosure or positioning for initial touch



By Matej
- Custom Type Editor for units and BC https://www.cyotek.com/blog/creating-a-custom-typeconverter-part-1   
									  https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ayybcxe5.aspx#Type

- if mesh fails, the history is corrupt - the meshing parameters remain in history
- min/max widgest are drawn correctly only by using the front view with animation turned on - fix it differently
- naming BCs, constraints ... one name for symbol and surface or node set... -> dictionary<name, list<maxActors>>
- Correctly draw transparent highlighted faces -> unstructured grid -> polyData -> DepthSortPolydata - SLOW
- Reduce the number of commands - as by Activate/Deactivate - NOT ACTIVE ANYMORE
- Add zero increment in each step with no displacements - done for first step
- Faster picking - first a vtkRenderedAreaSelector and if hit do a hardwareAreaPick; Found at tests of vtkProp3DCollection: (http://www.vtk.org/gitweb?p=VTK.git;a=blob;f=Rendering/Core/Testing/Cxx/TestCompositePolyDataMapper2Picking.cxx)


Errors:
- if first step is Nlgeo then all the rest of them are Nlgeo - this is not so in PrePoMax.
- on the wireframe view the query element command does not work 
- running with no Admin rights the number of cpus can not be changed...
- the mouseMove event gets fired every second?!
- there is something wrong when using small dimension: 0.001 - negative Jacobian


Dependency nglib - added following files for c++ redistriburable compatibility:

 2015
- concrt140.dll
- msvcp140.dll
- vccorlib140.dll
- vcruntime140.dll

2013
- msvcp120.dll
- msvcr120.dll




ToDo

Add support for PERTURBATION
Collapsable group box in front of the Name?
Binary with comments?
Axysymetric line?
2D Fixed not working for rotations?
Select similar in size?
VtkMeshQuality
Add color for slave constraint and contact items
Load, Bc, duplicate?
Save as: Krilo 	... if a file Krilo with no extension exist it will ask for overwrite !!! Windows problem


DONE

Version 1.3.5.1
All property field support equations
Added support for double-clicking the part to edit it
Temperature loads removed from the buckle step
Added support for mortar contact
Added support to collapse the material libraries
Changed the behaviour of the area selection
Added support for imaginary results
Added support for reading binary OpenFOAM files
Bug fixes

Version 1.3.5
Added partial support for opening OpenFOAM results
Added support to import a pressure load from OpenFOAM
Added support to define a stiffness of a surface spring constraint as stiffness per area
Added icons for different result visualizations
Added support for opening multiple results at the same time
Bug fixes

Version 1.3.4
A bug fix in hydrostatic load when using shell elements

Version 1.3.3
Added toolbar buttons for Query and remove annotations
Added support for a hydrostatic pressure load
Added a new toolbar for selection the deformation of results
Added Boudary displacement step for wear analysis
Added support for mouse selecion of the centrifugal load rotation point
Bug fixes

Version 1.3.2
Added support for annotation editing
Added support for multiple annotations at the same time
Added support for node, element, edge, surface and part annotation
Added annotations for measurements: distance, angle, circle
Other bug fixes

Version 1.3.1
Fixed a bug where a compound result part could not be opened
Fixed a bug where element field output PEEQ could not be displayed
Drasticaly improved the load times of large models using binary writter for the model visualization
Increased the upper value of the animation counter
Other bug fixes

Version 1.3.0 Master branch
Added support for amplitude creation and usage in boundary conditions and loads
Added support for managing multiple material libraries
Added material properties preview while using material library
Added support for material import/export to .inp files
Added support for mesh deformation during slip wear step using the boudary displacement method
Added slip wear analysis based on the Archard model
Added slip wear material properties
Added slip wear result field outputs
Settings are first saved in a tmp file and then the file is renamed
Added support to update nodal mesh coordinates from inp files
Added support to export deformed result mesh as inp files
Added support for selecting the deformed variable
Added support for file import using command line arguments
Added support for adding a history output from a field output
Added support for removing field outpurts
Added support for removing history outpurts
Added Tresca stress
Added pricipal strains


Version 1.2.0 Master branch
Added crash recovery functionality
Added support to export mesh and deformed result parts as stl files.
Added support to represent the undeformed result using a wireframe representation.
Added a feature to smooth stl part
Added a feature to flip stl part normal
Added a feature to regenerate a compound part
Added new symbol for the spring constraints
Added new constraint type Surface spring.
Added new constraint type Point spring.
Added support for opening and visualizing the contact element nodes from jobname.cel files
Added support for Contact elements parameter at nodal, elemental and contact field outputs
Added support for opening and visualizing the ResultsForLastIterations.frd files
Added support for Last iterations parameter at nodal, elemental and contact field outputs
Added support for element renumbering
Added support for membrane section and membrane finite element types M3D3, M3D6, M3D4, M3D4R, M3D8, M3D8R
Added support for performing 2D plane stress analysis using finite element types CPS3, CPS6, CPS4, CPS4R, CPS8, CPS8R
Added support for performing 2D plane strain analysis using finite element types CPE3, CPE6, CPE4, CPE4R, CPE8, CPE8R
Added support for performing 2D axisymmetric analysis using finite element types CAX3, CAX6, CAX4, CAX4R, CAX8, CAX8R
Added support for outputting shell and planar element results in 2D or 3D
Bug fixes

Version 1.1.1 Master branch
Added support for geometry part scaling (unit conversion)
Added an automatic contact pair search tool for creating tied constraints and contacts
Added support for swapping master and slave item of tied constraints and contacts
Added support for merging of tied constraints and contacts
Improved the speed of multiple tied constraints and contacts manipulation
Added a search tool for filtering the geometry, model and results tree
Added support for merging result parts
Improved the speed of working with large (>100) number of result parts
Improved the speed of selection in large (>100) assemblies
Bug fixes

Version 1.1.0 Master branch
Added support for reading thermal field and history outputs
Added support for enabling the output of thermal field and history outputs
Added support to read unsupported CalculiX keywords from an .inp file as user defined keywords
Added support for defining physical constraints
Added support for gap conductance surface interaction property
Added support for concentrated flux load
Added support for surface flux load
Added support for body flux load
Added support for convective film load
Added support for radiation load
Added support for temperature boundary conditions
Added support for coupled temperature-displacement step
Added support for uncoupled temperature-displacement step
Added support for heat transfer step
Added suppoprt for selection of the matrix solver type
Added suppoprt for seting default meshing settings
Added additional color-maps for post-processing
Added support for a defined fileld of type temperature
Added support for temperature initial condition
Added support for temperature dependent material data for all supported material properties
Added new material properties: thermal expansion, thermal conductivity and specific heat
Added description property to all materials


Version 1.0.0 Master branch
Added support to swap geometry between parts
Added support for exploded view
Added Shell edge load
Added support for .inp files using *Include keyword
Added support for Unit-less unit system
Added support for remeshing of shell finite element meshes
Added a feature to create a reference point between two points and in the circle center
Added support for generating model edges based on the face angle
Added support for color annotations of parts, materials, sections and FE symbols
Fixed the incrementation for the static step.
Bug fixes


Version 0.9.0 Master branch
Added support for import of shell CAD geometry
Added support for merging of shell faces into a compound
Added support for visualizing shell face orientations
Added support for flipping the shell face orientations
Added support for splitting shell faces using two poits
Added support for meshing of shell geometries using triangle and quadrilateral elements
Added support for meshing the .stl shell geometries
Added support for creating shell sections
Added support for visualizing the results on shell faces (option 2D)
Added support for auto-scroll in the monitor window
Bug fixes

Version 0.8.0 Master branch
For Frequency analysis added the mode number in the status block
Added the Adviser
Added simple material editor for Adviser
Added support for units/unit system
Added support for Duplicate of Materials, Surface Interactions and Steps
Added support for legend background and border
Added support for status block background and border
Bug fixes

Version 0.7.0 Master branch
Added support for individual colors for RPs, Constraints, Contact pairs, BCs and Loads
Added support for simple plotting of data grid values (material data, history outputs...)
Added option for using .pmx file folder for work analysis directory
Added support for Open Recent Files
Added support for contact history and field output
Added support for Contact Pairs creation
Added support for Friction
Added support for Surface Interaction creation
Added support for set creation on the fly
Simplified the creation of new sets
Fixed the visibility of symbols if geometry hidden
Added support for multi-part selection

Version 0.6.0 Master branch
Added support for Fixed parameter for BSc
Added support for creating prismatic boundy layer
Added support for Pre-tension load
At save a temporary file is first used which is then renamed to the selected file name.
Added support for splitting of compound meshes
Added support for regenerate to skipp over errors - needs further testing!!!
Double-clicking the status block widget opens settings
Add Edit CalculiX keywords menu to the context menu of the model tree
Added support for compound part creation and meshing
Optimized selection speed by keeping intermediate node results
Fixed selections based on geometry
Increased speed of meshing and analysis
Added support for edges on symbols for icreased visibility
Added support for Submodel boundary conditions
Added support for edge preview
Added support for mesh refinement - one part at a time
Fixed visualization error with to few colors for color contours

Version 0.5.2 Master branch
Added support for importing and meshing 'hollow' CAD files
Added support for importing .brep files
Added support for section view
Added support to query edges and surfaces
Added support for geometry selection of surfaces by angle
Added support for geometry selection of edges by angle
Changed the wireframe mode to show model edges
Fixed a bug with the strage selection in some cases - check for cellId != -1
Added manager for English language of message box buttons
Highlight hidden parts if they are selected in the model tree
Added support of RPs in history output
Added support for swap master/slave surfaces in tie constraints - context menu
Added support to activate/deactivate steps
Added descriptions provided by Martin to the video tutorials and
Added support to activate/deactivate constraints
Added support for CAD based selection entities in the FE Model tab
Added support for translating mesh parts
Added support for scaling mesh parts
Added support for rotating mesh parts
Added proces ZZS stresses as normal stress tensors
Added frequency option for the field output (every n increments)
Bug fixes - A bug in color conturs lookup table and other bugs reported by Martin
Bug fixes - Medium nodes on geometry - Midside nodes

Version 0.5.1 Master branch
Added support for additional mesh parameters
Added support for reading and displaying *El print data
Added support for reading and displaying *Node print data
Added support for preparation of outputs using *El print
Added support for preparation of outputs using *Node print
Added double click shortcuts on Model (for keywords) and on Scalar bar (for settings)
Added scale widget
Added support for finding short edges and small faces
Added support for hardware accelerated animation
Added support for hardening parameter in *Plastic material
Added support for *Buckling step
Added support for *Frequency step
Added support for reading Frequency results
Bug fixes

Version 0.5.0 Sync branch
Added support for selection by edges
Added Querry -> Assembly data
Added support for Show only (parts, constraints ...)
Added support for smooth shading via polymesh
Added support for point and line smoothing
Added support for .step file import
Added support for edges and surfaces import from .vol files
Added support for selection by surfaces
Added support for model rotation using arrow keys - laptops
Added support for importing .inp materials
Added support for importing .inp reference points and rigid bodies
Fixed stl import in case of collapsed triangles
Addeed support for internal surfaces

Version 0.4.7 Sync branch
Added support for gravity and centrifugal loads
Added support for hide/show and edit in the treeview with the space and enter keys
Added support for importing .inp surfaces
Added support for importing .inp element sets
Added support for importing .inp node sets
Added feature to merge mesh parts
Added feature to create a part from element set
Addes support for running .cmd files
Save As in now in AsyncMode.
Added setting for enabling/disabling the saving of the results into pmx files.
Redraw the dependent objects (loads, BCs, ...) if the child object changes
Added support for material library
Fixed bug: #1: %STR results can not be displayed
Fixed bug: #2: setting for open last file not working
Added support for environmental variables: Settings/Calculix/Parallelization
Bug fixes

Version 0.4.6
Added OK / Add new button to all forms
Fixed save button highlight is now refreshed after saving.
Fixed selection on assemblies when some parts are not visible.
Added support for exe parameters - fileName to open; removed LastState file. Save before closing warning added.
Support for saving animations as PNG images / added an increment step setting for time increment animation
Added convergence file display to the Monitor form
Support for openning the results file while the analysis is stil running
The features defined on surfaces display the surfaces in the 3D view
Added specular propertie to color, added translucency to model and actor edges
Added support for displaying the results in udeformed, deformed and color contours way.
Added help menu

Version 0.4.5
Added support for picking parts in 3D view
Part, node set, element set, surface and RP names must be unique.
Added support for multi-selection in the treeview control
Added support for importing geometry parts into results view
Added support for translucent colors
Added signed maximal absolute principal stress
Added support for parts in results view
Simplified the BC definition form
Added support for section assignments on element sets 
Bounding box min and max data added
Minor bug fixes

Version 0.4.4
Added principal stresses
Set state working/ready now only resets when called with the same text
Added separate commands for meshing parametres and create mesh
Added validity checking for all items connected with names - invalid items are colored red
Fixed the Element set form had bold font due to ViewElementSet not using DynamicCustomTypeDescriptor
Fixed in keyword editor the GUI created keywords can be moved and deleted - they should be readonly
Added suport for making movies from animations
Added support for Constraints on surfaces
Added support for BC on surfaces
Minor bug fixes

Version 0.4.3
Added animations with scale factor and time increments
Fixed queries on deformed geometry
Minor bug fixes

Version 0.4.2
Stl files draw both triangle sides
Changed the highloght functions of loads and boundary conditions
Added support for spatially equally distributed symbols
Support for hide/show loads
Added graphical representation of the concentrated load, distributed load, pressure and surface traction loads
Added graphical representation of the disp/rot boundary condition based on reference point
Added settings for pre-processing colors: highlight, mouse highlight, contraint symbol and boundary condition color
Support for hide/show boundary conditions
Added graphical representation of the disp/rot boundary condition based on node set
Added graphical representation of the disp/rot boundary condition based on reference point

Version 0.4.1
Support for hide/show constraints
A tool for measuring distance, angle and circle was added
A reference point can be created by nodeSets CG, by nodeSets BB CG and Coordinates
A bounding box center is computed and displayed for NodeSet.
Surface no longer contains the whole element set but only the element set name.
Added outer cell face enumeration for easier surface selection.
Added support for plastic material.
Changed the way the surfaces are created - direct selection on geometry - based on node selection so not working properly

Version 0.4.0
Added suport for node selection by edge.
Added support for netgen native *.vol solid mesh format.
Added support for import of *.stl geometry.
Added support for creating FE meshes using nglib library.

Version 0.3.1
Added output of the Analysis time in the status box.
Added support for inp mesh file import. Only C3D4 and C3D8 elements. For mesh import from Netgen.
Changed selection of result Step and Increment.
Added tree based Calculix keyword editor.
Added settings for background and lighting
Added property part color
Added show icons for Hidded parts
Fixed hide all parts, select one view (top, ...), show one part - the clipping range is not correct
Added support for Hide/show
Updated the way the scalar values are changed in results view - faster.

Version 0.3.0
Added edit only part properties not the whole part
Added faster selection of parts - add existing part to selection layer
Added job status should be changed to "None" if the model changes -> add idication for job that is not OK
Added disable/enable menus, when the model view changes from model to reslts and back;
Fixed cell picking (select by surface) has a problem if the ray hits the cell edge and goes through;
Fixed parabolic elements are not drawn correctly;
Fixed picking is not working for parabolic elements;
Fixed regenerate not working for node sets - node set has to be editeted to work.
Added icon.
Renamed to PrePoMax.
Fixed after the results are read, the name of the open file remains *.frd when you view the model.
Fixed when all results equals to 0 the model is not displayed correctly.
Improved speed of reading and saving fiels.
Fixed pick Node by Element - if picking on edge, mouse selection might give different result than actual pick.
Added selection by geometry.
Added element set creation by selection of nodes - pick and frustum
Added element set creation by selection of elements - pick and frustum.
Added element set creation by selection of surface angle.
Added element set creation by selection of parts.
Added element set creation by element ID.
Added node set creation by selection of nodes - pick and frustum.
Added node set creation by selection of elements - pick and frustum.
Added node set creation by selection of surface angle.
Added node set creation by selection of parts.
Added node set creation by node ID.

Version 0.2.2
Added min and max ballons for the results.
Fixed mouse selection on geometry with beam FE.
Fixed red edges at the results,
All 2D cells are drawn on both sides; the backface culling is enabled at all times,
Added Wireframe view,
Changed the representation of all edges from lines to wireframe triangles (extracted lines were extracted and then drawn for all 3D cells),
Added query of the resutls,
Added mouse selection of points and cells,
Added all custom widgets,
Added widget for status block (border widget).

Version 0.2.1
Added rainbow color spectrum.
Added min and max setttings for the results.
Fixed - if the number of discreete colors is reduced from 9 -> 2, after first apply is not OK, after second apply is OK.
All item forms are now not modal any more.
Added highlighting of the node sets, element sets, parts, surfaces and reference points in all forms.
Determine edges from mesh based on the angle 30°.
Draw only outter surface of the solid geometry.
Fixed - the status block gets hidden if undeformed shape is drawn -> status block moved to selectionLayer.
Fixed - after deactivation the icon "deactivated" is not shown. -> the last icon in the icon list is not shown!!!
Added support for reference points in boundary conditions.
Added feature RIGID BODY.
Added feature reference points.
Added multi-layerd rendering with 3 layers

Version 0.2.0
Added command patern.
Add support for element type selection for each part.
Replace all propertyGrids with tab enabled one.
Added support for keyboard Delete on the model tree.
Edit load - show which type of load it is.
Settings for the postprocessor: draw deformed shape
Added support for parabolic hexahedral elements
Settings for the postprocessor: def. scale factor, number of colors, number of sig. digits, number format
Added status block with name, date, time and def. scale factor
Added Normal view
Added support for linear quadrilateral and linear wedge elements
Added support for parabolic quadrilateral and parabolic wedge elements
Added support for linear hexahedral elements
